# movieassestment-project

The goal of the project was to be able to tell a company, in this case Microsoft, that wishes to get into the film industry about certain criteria that it takes to be successful in the industry. Our objective was to create several visualizations using data based around top rated shows to best suggest to Microsoft what to do, our main question was: "Are streaming platforms more popular now, since most people have a smartphone by their side?" For our project, it was necessary for us to be able to collect data through the use of web-scraping (using BeautifulSoup) & API calls (we used the OMDB and TVMaze APIs) and it was necessary for us to be able to use Python code to clean our data into a coherent dataframe that we could then use to construct visualizations that showed the correlation between different aspects of the shows. On GitHub, you will find all of our Jupyter Notebooks which contain our code for pulling, cleaning, analyzing and graping our data, a csv file with our dataframe that we used for our analysis and a pdf of our presentation of slides of our final suggestions to Microsoft. Although the over-arching question for our data was "how does a streaming platform copare to network TV", we focused on specifically on the relationships between ratings and a variable we created called "award exposure" (which is a combination of the shows' award wins and nominations lumped together, we look at this variable as a show's publicity due to its award nominations and vicotires). The data we collected is the top 250 shows on IMDB as our IDs, then we collected the genre, type, rating, awards, IMDB code, title, total number of seasons and runtime.

Our recommendation: 
    According to the data we collected, the data clearly showed that despite our initial beliefs that streaming platforms would be more popular, network TV shows still receive higher ratings and award exposure. Looking into the data of network TV shows even more, we discovered that the genre and type of the shows that on average have higher ratings and award exposure are romance and scripted, respectively. We believe, the genre and types should be combined to create scripted romantic TV shows.
  
If we had more time, we would have liked to view the top shows from different years instead of focusing on just this year, for increasing our dataset. We would also combine all of our functions into a 'run-through' notebook and funtions notebook, to make all of our code a little more clear and easier to understand.